---
title: DXU Manual
---

Thank you for using Datalogic DXU. Please use the links on the left to access the various sections of the manual, or start here:

[Getting Started](getting-started.md)

Released versions of DXU are available here:

[Releases](https://github.com/datalogic/dxu/releases)

## Credits

### Contact Information

Datalogic ADC, Inc
959 Terry Street
Eugene, OR 97402 USA
Telephone: (541) 683-5700
Fax: (541) 345-7140

### Copyright Notice

©2017 Datalogic ADC, Inc

An Unpublished Work - All rights reserved. No part of the contents of
this documentation or the procedures described therein may be reproduced
or transmitted in any form or by any means with- out prior written
permission of Datalogic ADC, Inc. or its subsidiaries or affiliates
(“Datalogic” or “Datalogic ADC”). Owners of Datalogic products are
hereby granted a non-exclusive, revocable license to reproduce and
transmit this documentation for the purchaser’s own internal business
purposes. Purchaser shall not remove or alter any proprietary notices,
including copyright notices, contained in this documentation and shall
ensure that all notices appear on any reproductions of the
documentation.

Should future revisions of this manual be published, you can acquire
printed versions by contacting your Datalogic representative. Electronic
versions may either be downloadable from the Datalogic website
(www.datalogic.com) or provided on appropriate media. If you visit our
website and would like to make comments or suggestions about this or
other Datalogic publications, please let us know via the “Contact
Datalogic” page.

### Disclaimer

Datalogic has taken reasonable measures to provide information in this
manual that is complete and accurate; however, Datalogic reserves the
right to change any specification at any time without prior notice.

Datalogic and the Datalogic logo are registered trademarks of Datalogic
S.p.A. in many countries, including the U.S.A. and the E.U. All other
brand and product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.

### Patents

See
[www.patents.datalogic.com](http://www.patents.datalogic.com/) for patent list.
